docs(production): add concurrency limits to production best practices (#489)
openfga/openfga.dev: docs/content/getting-started/production-best-practices.mdx

- Set the log.format to "json"
- Set the log.level to "info"
- [Disable the Playground](./setup-openfga/docker-setup.mdx#playground).
- [Set Concurrency Limits](#concurrency-limits)

## Database Recommendations

To ensure good performance for OpenFGA, it is recommended that the [database](./setup-openfga/docker-setup.mdx#configuring-data-storage) be:
- Used exclusively for OpenFGA and not shared with other applications. This allows scaling the database independently and avoiding contention with your database.
- Bootstrapped and managed with the `openfga migrate` command. This will ensure the appropriate database indexes are created.

> It's strongly recommended to fine-tune your server database connection settings to avoid having to re-establish database connections frequently. Establishing database connections is slow and will negatively impact performance, and so here are some guidlines for managing database connection settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's strongly recommended to fine-tune your server database connection settings to avoid having to re-establish database connections frequently. Establishing database connections is slow and will negatively impact performance, and so here are some guidelines for managing database connection settings:
```

- The server setting `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_MAX_OPEN_CONNS` should be set to be equal to your database's max connections. For example, in Postgres, you can see this value via running the SQL query `SHOW max_connections;`. If you are running multiple instances of the OpenFGA server, you should divide this setting equally among the instances. For example, if your database's `max_connections` is 100, and you have 2 OpenFGA instances, `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_MAX_OPEN_CONNS` should be set to 50 for each instance.

- The `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_MAX_IDLE_CONNS` should be set to a value no greater than the maximum open connections (see the bullet point above), but it should be set sufficiently high enough to avoid having to recreate connections on each request.

>   If you see a lot of database connections being closed and subsequently reopened, then you should consider increasing the maximum number of idle connections.

Reviewer: Re: "If you see a lot of database connections being closed and subsequently reopened"

We should add instructions on how to see this. But today, how can they do that? Wouldn't we have to expose DB stats from Openfga? https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#DBStats

Reviewer 2: We currently don't expose the DBStats. The user can however monitor this from their DB stats as part of operations.

I have a little bit of hesitation in exposing this as this is specific to SQL base stats. Other database connector implementation will not have this available (or have the same struct).

Reviewer: > The user can however monitor this from their DB stats as part of operations.

Yeah that's what I thought, but i think we should mention that here.

>   If you see a lot of database connections being closed and subsequently reopened, then you should consider increasing the maximum number of idle connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If, when monitoring your database stats, you see a lot of database connections being closed and subsequently reopened, then you should consider increasing the maximum number of idle connections.
```

> - If idle connections are getting reaped frequently, then consider increasing the`OPENFGA_DATASTORE_CONN_MAX_IDLE_TIME` to a large value. When in doubt, prioritize keeping connections around for longer rather than shorter, because doing so will drastically improve performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If idle connections are getting reaped frequently, then consider increasing the `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_CONN_MAX_IDLE_TIME` to a large value. When in doubt, prioritize keeping connections around for longer rather than shorter, because doing so will drastically improve performance.
```

## Concurrency Limits
:::note
Before modifying concurrency limits please make sure you've followed the guidance for [Database Recommendations](./#database-recommendations)
:::

> OpenFGA queries such as Check and ListObjects can be quite database and CPU intensive in some cases. If you notice that a single request is consuming a lot of CPU or creating a high degree of database contention, then you may consider setting some concurrency limits to protect other requests from being negatively impacted by overly aggressive queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenFGA queries such as Check and ListObjects can be database and CPU intensive. If you notice that a single request is consuming a lot of CPU or doing many database reads, then you should consider setting some concurrency limits to protect other requests from being negatively impacted by overly aggressive queries. 
```

Author: Addressed.

The following table enumerates the server's concurrency specific settings:

| flag                                    | env                                           | config                           |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| --max-concurrent-reads-for-list-objects | OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_LIST_OBJECTS | maxConcurrentReadsForListObjects |
| --max-concurrent-reads-for-check        | OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_CHECK        | maxConcurrentReadsForCheck       |
| --resolve-node-limit                    | OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_LIMIT                    | resolveNodeLimit                 |
| --resolve-node-breadth-limit            | OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT            | resolveNodeBreadthLimit          |

> Determining the right values for these settings will be based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the database specific deployment topology, the FGA model(s) involved, and the relationship tuples in the system. However, here are some high-level guidelines:

Reviewer: re: "the database specific deployment topology", can we be more specific here? To me this just means how many replicas of OpenFGA are running, is there something else?

Author: > the database specific deployment topology

This statement has nothing to do with OpenFGA servers. It refers to the deployment topology of the database.

Author: Ok, made it more specific

> Determining the right values for these settings will be based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the database specific deployment topology, the FGA model(s) involved, and the relationship tuples in the system. However, here are some high-level guidelines:

Reviewer 4: Should we suggest some values? What are the default values?

Author: The problem is that we can't realistically suggest generally sound values because it is completely dependent on the things mentioned in this paragraph.

The best guidance that is accurate that we can give is to maximize the number of open connections to the database, maximize the idle connections, and set more restrictive concurrency settings if you notice requests are impacting others.

> * If a single ListObjects query is negatively impacting other query endpoints, then consider setting a stricter value for `OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_LIST_OBJECTS`.
> 
> * If a single Check query is negatively impacting other query endpoints, then consider setting a stricter value for `OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_CHECK`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a single ListObjects query is negatively impacting other query endpoints by increasing their latency or their error rate, then consider setting a lower value for `OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_LIST_OBJECTS`.

* If a single Check query is negatively impacting other query endpoints by increasing their latency or their error rate, then consider setting a lower value for `OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_CHECK`.
```

> If you still see high request latencies despite the guidance above, then you may additionally consider setting stricter limits on the query resolution behavior by limiting the resolution depth and resolution breadth. These can be controlled with the `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_LIMIT` and `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` settings, respectively. Consider these guidelines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still see high request latencies despite the guidance above, then you may additionally consider setting stricter limits on CPU usage by limiting the resolution depth and resolution breadth. These can be controlled with the `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_LIMIT` and `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` settings, respectively. Consider these guidelines:
```

> * `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_LIMIT` limits the resolution depth of a single query, and thus it sets an upper bound on how deep a relationship hierarchy may be. A high value will allow a single query to involve more hierarchical resolution and therefore more database queries, while a low value will reduce the number of hierarchical resolutions that will be allowed and thus reduce the number of database queries.

Reviewer: > `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_LIMIT` limits the resolution depth of a single query, and thus it sets an upper bound on how deep a relationship hierarchy may be.

Can give an example here, e.g. if a model has `define c: b` and `define b:a`, this setting puts a limit on how many of these indirections you can have

Author: I agree here. If we want to have another page that describes the resolution behavior of Checks and ListObjects, then I think this level of content would be a good fit for that page.

Reviewer: But you're already hinting at how it works with `and thus it sets an upper bound on how deep a relationship hierarchy may be`. My suggestion is to make this explanation more clear

> * `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` limits the resolution breadth. It sets an upper bound on the number of in-flight resolutions that can be taking place on one or more [usersets](../concepts#what-is-a-user). A high value will allow a single query to involve more concurrent evaluations to take place and therefore more database queries and server processes, while a low value will reduce the overall number of concurrent resolutions that will be allowed and thus reduce the number of database queries and server processes.

Reviewer: > `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` limits the resolution breadth.

Can give an example here, e.g. if a model has `define viewer: a1 or a2 or a3 or .... aN`, this setting puts a limit on how many of the `a`s can be resolved concurrently.

> A high value will allow a single query to involve more concurrent evaluations to take place **and therefore more database queries**

No, this setting doesn't control how many database reads are made. I would say

> A high value will allow a single query to involve more concurrent evaluations to take place and therefore more threads created

Author: > No, this setting doesn't control how many database reads are made. I would say

The more tuples we encounter in the iterator the more goroutines and database queries. They are definitely related. Each evaluation of a tuple we visit causes another branch of evaluation that causes both goroutines and database queries.

> * `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` limits the resolution breadth. It sets an upper bound on the number of in-flight resolutions that can be taking place on one or more [usersets](../concepts#what-is-a-user). A high value will allow a single query to involve more concurrent evaluations to take place and therefore more database queries and server processes, while a low value will reduce the overall number of concurrent resolutions that will be allowed and thus reduce the number of database queries and server processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `OPENFGA_RESOLVE_NODE_BREADTH_LIMIT` limits the resolution breadth. It sets an upper bound on the number of in-flight resolutions that can be taking place on one or more [usersets](../concepts.mdx#what-is-a-user). A high value will allow a single query to involve more concurrent evaluations to take place and therefore more database queries and server processes, while a low value will reduce the overall number of concurrent resolutions that will be allowed and thus reduce the number of database queries and server processes.
```

- The server setting `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_MAX_OPEN_CONNS` should be set to be equal to your database's max connections. For example, in Postgres, you can see this value via running the SQL query `SHOW max_connections;`. If you are running multiple instances of the OpenFGA server, you should divide this setting equally among the instances. For example, if your database's `max_connections` is 100, and you have 2 OpenFGA instances, `OPENFGA_DATASTORE_MAX_OPEN_CONNS` should be set to 50 for each instance.

## Concurrency Limits

> Check and ListObjects queries can potentially involve a high-degree of depth or breadth to resolve the query. If a query involves a lot of recursion or indirect group lookups, then it's possible that a single query could dominate the server's resources and the database connections. For this reason, we recommend setting some concurrency limits to protect OpenFGA servers.

Reviewer: should we introduce the idea here that Check is like looking for a leaf node in a tree? otherwise, people won't understand what depth or breadth mean

Reviewer: also, we mention breadth and depth but the settings we mention below don't put a limit on either of those 🤔

Author: I don't think it's this section of our documentation that should be responsible for describing how Check evaluation works. That should be saved for the concepts page or a blog post or some other form of documentation in our official docsite. The Production Best Practices should strive to remain succinct  and to the point.

> also, we mention breadth and depth but the settings we mention below don't put a limit on either of those 🤔
I don't understand what you mean by this? Could you elaborate?

Author: Reworked the documentation a lot. Let me know what you think.

| Flag                                      | Env                                           | Config                           |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|

> | ----max-concurrent-reads-for-list-objects | OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_LIST_OBJECTS | maxConcurrentReadsForListObjects |

Reviewer 3: fyi there's an extra `--` here

> | --max-concurrent-reads-for-check          | OPENFGA_MAX_CONCURRENT_READS_FOR_CHECK        | maxConcurrentReadsForCheck       |

Reviewer: what about `OPENFGA_RESOLVENODELIMIT` and `OPENFGA_RESOLVENODEBREADTHLIMIT`?

> Developers can configure the server settings above to limit the amount of concurrent evaluations/reads that can be in effect per request. These settings will effectively queue/throttle evaluation paths so as to reduce the total concurrency from a single query. The default values for these are essentially unbounded (e.g. `MaxUint32`).

Reviewer: Can we add a column to the table with title `description` and move this explanation there?

Reviewer: Actually, I thought at some point we sourced this data https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json and generated a table with all the configs there? @adriantam ?

Reviewer 2: > Actually, I thought at some point we sourced this data https://github.com/openfga/openfga/blob/main/.config-schema.json and generated a table with all the configs there? @adriantam ?

We wanted to - but never had a chance to do it yet.
